and
the university and many research organizations
because it's there and because they can conduct
experiments there. The nominal cost, in the
meantime, they don't even have to pay it. And
that's where we have a problem right now with the
sites that are not being paid. But
I think that we should keep it. We should maintain
it. It's a great thing. There's more research.
And, of course, there's research opportunities.
Is this changed recently? Some of the last two
years.
I
think
it was dynamic And
it has
served well. And it's still doing fine now. And it
supports a large number
of medical researchers and other universities
that serve the industry. But the philosophy of who
pays is a big question. If it stays in fees, it'll
have to increase its charges. make
people pay for the services
they get. It goes to the university, and that's
the way it is. If the legislature will fund it, then
it can be a service. It does not require payment for
the service. Have there been any other... Well,
I think the strategic
technology that's going on right now is receiving
a lot more attention because the international
attention has increased. I think that the
Department of Defense paying more
attention
to organizations
like the Center, which has become a favorite. And
so they are investing more in some of the type
studies that are being conducted there. And
incidentally, that's a very interdisciplinary
group as well. It has history people, chemistry
people, Your
colleague,
who is an associate director here, is working on
one of Dr. Thomas's problems involving chemical
production in the eastern part. But I think it's
the tensions in Greece and the security of the
nation that comes with more concern. There will be
more students in that area. And this is a new area.
I
think that with the new emphasis on space, the
space program is the
attention.
I think that we will have
to hire some interesting people, faculty,
faculty researchers, to look at some of the
problems that a space station will have, problems
with power in space, anything, communicate with
it, grow things, clone this and clone that. Has
the goal changed since you came?
Let me just
try to
quote for you
a statement from the
Bulletin of the Agricultural and Environmental
College of Texas of August 1914. It reads, the
purpose of the team is to provide technical
assistance to the urban population of Texas and
solve the technological problems. of being
assistance to Texas industries in solving such
and such
a problem, and disseminating the results of the
research. Keep singing. Oh, yeah. Well, I
researched that out of the archives when I first
got here. You wanted to find out what your goals
were. I wanted to find out what the goals were. And I
don't really think they changed. I mean, our goals
are still oriented to Texas because the Texas
legislature provides us some of our tax dollars to
help us
develop the program. But we are nationally
oriented also. Hello? OK. Where were we? Talking
about Texas legislature. Oh, have the goals
changed. I think we're both nationally and
internationally oriented more than before.
Because we've got more Aggies worldwide, too. And
when those Arabs want to do some things like design
a soccer stadium,
Texas A&M wind tunnels, Yeah. They have
prevailing winds over there on those deserts in
the yard. And the design and orientation of that
soccer field would have an effect on the winds
carrying that soccer ball. So engineers are in
petroleum production worldwide. They're in
education worldwide. We've got some Aggie crops.
Well,
I think it's a positive. It's a plus, because I
think the graduates of Texas A&M And
I think, well, just take the environmental
effects of building a dam. That project helped the
federal government and EPA and everybody else
assess whether or not they wanted to build a dam.
They haven't built the dam because the water
requirements for this area are not that great by
now. They just want to keep their land because they
thought they could get more money for it later. So
later it's going to cost the state and the federal
government more money to build a reservoir. But at
any rate, all I'm saying is that our involvement in
helping you solve the problem is a kind of . The last
point I want to make is if you
feel the change in directorship from Norton to
Porter changed your job?
Well, I think that Dr. Porter has a long-range
vision.
He's looking more
to the national scene. He has given us some more
challenges.
I'm used to dancing with more freedom to do what you
want to do. And that's what we
did. And I still
offer it a lot. I may be a quarter-time teacher, but
there's
some times when I'm studying full and working with
teachers like I do in Washington, carrying the
flag up there on the Engineering Research Center
program, making it one of the designated research
centers for students. that we can't win one
of those. But at any rate, I do think that Dr.
Porter, with his name, is good for people. I think
there are, as I said, in any organization, those
that resist and those that... We're
having some problems right now deciding how we're
going to do this. And it's a lot of waste of time.
We've got to get back to remembering that this is
Texas United. United we stand. We must be
together. We must work for the common good.
Everybody. I
don't like this current concern about separate
organizations. I don't think we're separate
organizations. We are . We're not anything else.
the separate organizations
concerned, is that something that's coming from
above in the administration or something that's
coming from below in the individuals? Well, some
of the... You never know what's coming. You know,
it could come from... If Joe Doakes over here is a
good, eloquent speaker, and he's sat in on lots of
policy projects and is doing constructive
research, and he's built himself up as a spokesman
for the faculty. And he says, I don't like this
organization. And he tells somebody else. He
doesn't like this organization. Therefore, the
organization is no good because Joe Doakes is an
expert. Joe Doakes is no more of an expert
than anybody else. But he's just more eloquent.
And you've just got to take this whole spectrum
of people. And if somebody doesn't want to work in
the system, OK, don't. Get over here. Go to your
coffee classes, but get out of our way and let us do
our job. I think we've had some problems because we
have shortages of people in the workplace.
They've been hiring associate provosts I've
been hiring this guy for I don't know how long. Too
long. I haven't got it. The department of
mechanical engineering now. Arrow is leaving. I
guess
so. There are some pros and there are some cons. But
by and large, we need to get on with it and do it,
whatever we're going to do. Is there anything else
you'd like to add about your
experiences with TEAS? Well, TEAS, in my view, is a
fine organization.
It's an organization designed to help people who
want to develop themselves and their students. If
there are
people who do not want to promote Texas A&M and its
students, then let them get out of the way unless a
tease is oriented to helping solve problems of
importance to the industries and the people of
Texas. And part
of
that problem is making
sure that the kids of our state get the right kind of
education. And that means getting the right kind
of professional
development. Again, they should be involved in
research. We can help them do that. So I'm just
saying that these priorities, they can all work
honestly in a dedicated way.
Well, I hope you can get some of that into your
history.
Have you got all this stuff? Yeah, but I need to talk
to him, too, and see what little things he didn't
put into those.
Don't emphasize any of the problems that I've
gotten off on. I guess everybody gets off on them.
Every organization's got problems, and if you
don't have problems, nobody's going to believe
good problems.